# Spring Topics - 

### 1. [Maven Details](./1.Maven%20detail%20.md)

### 2. [Layered Architecture of Spring Boot](./2.%20Layered%20Architecture%20of%20Spring%20Boot.md)

### 3. Spring Boot Internal Working
 
1. Bean
2. Inversion of Control
3. IoC Container
4. Application Context
5. How to create Bean ?
    - @Component
    - @Configuration & @Bean
6. How to check if the beans are present in application ?
    - Using Actuators
    - Using object of Application Context

### 4. Annotations

1. Main Annotations- 
    - @ComponentScan
    - @Configuration
    - @EnableAutoConfiguration
    - @SpringBootApplication

2. Controller Layer Annotation
    - @Controller
    - @RequestMapping
    - @ResponseBody
    - @RestController
    - @GetMapping
    - @PostMapping
    - @PutMapping
    - @DeleteMapping
    - @RequestParam
    - @PathVariable
    - @RequestBody

3. Service Layer Annotation
    - @Service

4. Repository Layer Annotation
    - @Repository

5. Dependency Injection
    - @Autowired

### 5. Understand Dependency Injection

1. Why Dependency Injection
2. Dependency Injection and Its Types
    - Filed Injection
    - Setter Injection
    -  Constructor Injection
3. Problems faced during Dependency Injection
    - Circular Dependency
    - Unsatisfied Dependency


### 6. Customizing the Nature of a Bean in Lifecycle

1. What are Custom Actions while Bean Creation.
2. Interfaces to customize bean Nature.
    - InitializingBean
    - DisposableBean
3. @PostConstructor
4. @PreDestroy annotations.


### 7. @Primary and @Qualifier Annotation

### 8.  Understand Spring Bean Scope
 
1. Scope of Bean
2. Types of Beans based on Scope
    - Singleton
    - Prototype
    - Request
    - Session

### 9. ConditionalOnProperties - Manage too many Beans


### 10. Application Properties and Profile Specific Config
 
1. How to read the values from application.properties file ..?
2. What is Profile and How to use it ?
3. How to change Active profile instead of mentioning in main application.properties file ?
    - using Command
    - Using pom.xml file
    - Using @Profile Annotation


### 11. Exception Handler and Controller Advice
 
1. Traditional Way of Handling Exceptions.
2. Exception Handler
3. Need of Controller Advise and Implementation


### 12. Aspect Oriented Programming

### 13. SpringBoot with JPA
 
1. Configuration the connection with SpringBoot.
2. How to implement the CRUD Operation at Repository level ..?

### 14. Spring Transactions and @Transactional Annotation

1. What Problem does Transactions solves ..?
2. Overview of how it works ..?
3. How to use @Transactional Annotation ..?
4. What is Transaction Managers ..?
5. What is Transaction Propogation ?
6. Types of Transaction Propogation



### 15. Actuators

1. What is Actuators ?
2. Configure Actuators in Spring Boot Application
3. How to check the listed Beans of Spring Boot project ..?
4. How to check the CACHE of Spring Boot project ..?
5. How to check the Conditions evaluate on Configuration or AutoConfiguration ..?
6. How to check current active Profile of Environments ..?
7. How to check health active Profile of Environments ..?

### 16. Logging in Spring Boot

1. What is Logging ..?
2. Logging Levels
3. How to use Logger in Application

### 17. JUnit in Sping Boot

Topics - 
1. What is Unit Testing ..?
2. Why Unit Testing is important ..?
3. What is the use of Mokito (@Mock) ..?
4. How to write the Test Codes in Java Spring ..?
5. @BeforeAll, @BeforeEach, @AfterEach, @AfterAll
6. How to verify how many times any method has been called using Mokito ..?
7. How to perform Nothing through Mockito when some method is invoked ..?
8. How to consume the private methods of any service on Testing since we can't directly call them ..?

### 18. Spring Batch

### 19. Spring Data JPA in detail

### 20. Spring Data JPA Relationships

1. Relationships and its Types
2. OneToOne
3. OneToMany
4. ManyToOne
5. ManyToMany

### 21. Spring Boot Caching

1. What is Cache ?
2. Why Cache ?
3. Implementation of Cache in Spring Boot 
    - 3.1. Enable Caching
    - 3.2 Use Cache in Service Layer
    - @EnableCaching
    - @Cacheable
    - @CachePut
    - @CacheEvict
4. How to check the Cache
5. Types of Cache
    - 5.1 In Memory Cache
    - 5.2 Distributed Cache


### 22. Spring Boot Scheduling

1. What is Scheduling
2. How to Enable and Use Scheduling in Spring Boot Application 
    - @EnableScheduling
    - @Scheduled
3. Dynamic Scheduling


### 23. Filters in Spring Boot

1. What are Filters
2. What are Filters Chain
3. Implement Custom Filter