# Spring Beans and Application Context

Topics - 

1. What is Bean ?
2. What is Spring IoC Container ?
3. What is Application Context ?
4. How to create Bean ?
    - @Component
    - @Configuration & @Bean
5. How to check if the beans are present in application ?
    - Using Actuators
    - Using object of Application Context



## 1. What is Bean ?

When a POJO (Plain Old Java Object) is managed by Spring Boot is called Bean.

Hence, Bean is nothing but just Plain Old Java Object managed by Spring Boot.



## 2. What is Spring IoC Container ?

Spring IoC Container manages the Bean along with its dependencies.

Consider it as a box where all the Spring Beans are stored.

Hence, Bean Creation, Bean Injection, Bean Deletion everything is managed by Spring IoC Container.



## 3. What is Application Context ?

The implementation of Spring IoC Container is Application Context.

It is the actual object inside Spring Application which will manage the Beans.


## 4. How to create Bean ?

When we provide configuration Metadata or Annotation to POJO, it turns into a Bean.

### Ways to create Bean - 
1. @Component
2. @Configuration & @Bean


### Use @Component

To Convert any POJO we can use this Annotation at the Class level to turn it into Bean.

We can use other Annotations which represents Component but also represents different Layers.

Hence we can use `@Service`, `@Repository`, or `@RestController` etc.


### Use @Configuration & @Bean

We can define a Class and then define its configuration class which will return the object of Actual class.

Ex-

Suppose we have a Class called CreditCardService which contains cardPayment method which we wants to use during transaction process - 

```
public class CreditCardService {
	
	public void cardPayment(){
        .... Payment logic .....
    }
	
}
```

Now we will define a Configuration class for the same which will return an object of CreditCardService - 

```
@Configuration
public class PaymentConfig {

    @Bean
    public CreditCardService creditCardService () {
        return new CreditCardService() ;
    }

}
```



## 5. How to check if the beans are present in application ?

### Using Actuators

In the `pom.xml` file, add the below dependency in dependency section - 

```
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-actuator</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

And On your application go to `src/main/resources/application.properties` file and the below configuration - 

```
management.endpoints.web.exposure.include = *
```

Now Run your application.
If it is running on port 8080 then use the below url on browser to see the beans - 

```
http://localhost:8080/actuator/beans
```


### Using object of Application Context (ConfigurableApplicationContext)

We can define the ConfigurableApplicationContext in our main class like below and we can use its getBean Method to check if Bean is present - 

```
import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
import org.springframework.context.ConfigurableApplicationContext;


@SpringBootApplication
public class ProjectApplication {

	public static void main(String[] args) {
    //		SpringApplication.run(ProjectApplication.class, args);
		
		ConfigurableApplicationContext applicationContext = SpringApplication.run(ProjectApplication.class, args) ;
		
        System.out.println( applicationContext.getBean("employeeService") ) ;
	}

}
```